Integrate sql introspection page generation (#422)
restatedev/documentation: docs/references/sql-introspection.md

---
sidebar_position: 3
description: "API reference for inspecting the invocation status and service state."
---
# SQL Introspection API

This page contains the reference of the introspection tables.
To learn how to access the instrospection interface, check out the [instrospection documentation](/operate/introspection).

## Table: `state`

| Column name | Type | Description |
|-------------|------|-------------|
| `partition_key` | `UInt64` | Internal column that is used for partitioning the services invocations. Can be ignored. |
| `service_name` | `Utf8` | The name of the invoked service. |
| `service_key` | `Utf8` | The key of the Virtual Object. |
| `key` | `Utf8` | The `utf8` state key. |

> | `value_utf8` | `Utf8` | Only contains meaningful values when a service stores state as `utf8`. This is the case for TypeScript services since the TypeScript SDK serializes values as JSON. |

Reviewer: `This is the case for TypeScript services since the TypeScript SDK serializes values as JSON. ` --> I think Java as well now, with the JsonSerdes?

Author: Will add this.

| `target` | `Utf8` | Invocation Target. Format for plain services: `ServiceName/HandlerName`, e.g. `Greeter/greet`. Format for Virtual Objects/Workflows: `VirtualObjectName/Key/HandlerName`, e.g. `Greeter/Francesco/greet`. |
| `target_service_name` | `Utf8` | The name for the invoked service. |
| `target_service_key` | `Utf8` | The key of the Virtual Object or of the Workflow. Null for regular services. |
| `target_handler_name` | `Utf8` | The invoked handler. |
| `target_service_ty` | `Utf8` | The service type. Either `service` or `virtual_object` or `workflow`. |
| `invoked_by` | `Utf8` | Either `ingress` if the service was invoked externally or `service` if the service was invoked by another Restate service. |
| `invoked_by_service_name` | `Utf8` | The name of the invoking service. Or `null` if invoked externally. |
| `invoked_by_id` | `Utf8` | The caller [Invocation ID](/operate/invocation#invocation-identifier) if the service was invoked by another Restate service. Or `null` if invoked externally. |
| `invoked_by_target` | `Utf8` | The caller invocation target if the service was invoked by another Restate service. Or `null` if invoked externally. |

> | `pinned_deployment_id` | `Utf8` | The opaque service deployment ID that has been committed for this invocation; this is set after the first journal entry is stored for this invocation. |

Reviewer: Can we make the language a bit easier for this? 
`The ID of the service deployment that started processing this invocation, and will continue to do so (e.g. for retries). This gets set after the first journal entry has been stored for this invocation.`

Author: 👍

| `trace_id` | `Utf8` | The ID of the trace that is assigned to this invocation. Only relevant when tracing is enabled. |
| `journal_size` | `UInt32` | The number of journal entries durably logged for this invocation. |
| `created_at` | `Date64` | Timestamp indicating the start of this invocation. |

> | `modified_at` | `Date64` | Timestamp indicating the last state transition. For example, last time the status changed from `invoked` to `suspended`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `modified_at` | `Date64` | Timestamp indicating the last invocation status transition. For example, last time the status changed from `invoked` to `suspended`. |
```

> | `retry_count` | `UInt64` | The number of attempts since the last successful attempt of this invocation. Increments on start, so 2 or more means a failure occurred. |

Reviewer: `since the last successful attempt`? Not sure what we mean by this. A successful attempt to me sounds as if the invocation finished successfully.

Author: Yeah, the wording is a bit confusing. What we mean by this is that we don't persist the invocation state across suspensions or system restarts. So it is not the global retry_count.

Author: I replaced it with:

```
/// The number of invocation attempts since the current leader started executing it. Increments
    /// on start, so a value greater than 1 means a failure occurred. Note: the value is not a
    /// global attempt counter across invocation suspensions and leadership changes.
```

Only slightly better :-(

| `last_start_at` | `Date64` | Timestamp indicating the start of the most recent attempt of this invocation. |
| `next_retry_at` | `Date64` | Timestamp indicating the start of the next attempt of this invocation. |

> | `last_attempt_deployment_id` | `Utf8` | The opaque service deployment ID that was used in the most recent attempt of this invocation; this will be set before a journal entry is stored, but can change later. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `last_attempt_deployment_id` | `Utf8` | The ID of the service deployment that executed the most recent attempt of this invocation; this is set before a journal entry is stored, but can change later. |
```

Author: 👍

| `last_failure_related_entry_type` | `Utf8` | The type of the journal entry that caused the failure, if any. You can check all the available entry types in [`entries.rs`](https://github.com/restatedev/restate/blob/main/crates/types/src/journal/entries.rs). |
| `status` | `Utf8` | Either `pending` or `ready` or `running` or `backing-off` or `suspended` or `completed`. |

## Table: `sys_journal`

| Column name | Type | Description |
|-------------|------|-------------|
| `partition_key` | `UInt64` | Internal column that is used for partitioning the services invocations. Can be ignored. |
| `id` | `Utf8` | [Invocation ID](/operate/invocation#invocation-identifier). |
| `index` | `UInt32` | The index of this journal entry. |
| `entry_type` | `Utf8` | The entry type. You can check all the available entry types in [`entries.rs`](https://github.com/restatedev/restate/blob/main/crates/types/src/journal/entries.rs). |
| `name` | `Utf8` | The name of the entry supplied by the user, if any. |
| `completed` | `Boolean` | Indicates whether this journal entry has been completed; this is only valid for some entry types. |

> | `invoked_id` | `Utf8` | If this entry represents an outbound invocation, indicates the ID of that invocation. |

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be inbound invocation? 
`The ID of the inbound invocation: the original invocation that came in over the Restate ingress (HTTP/Kafka/SDK clients).`
Maybe needs some more iterations

Author: What this column means is if the journal entry is a call/send, then the `invoked_id` will contain its invocation id. So outbound invocation is meant to be call and send (one way call).

> | `invoked_target` | `Utf8` | If this entry represents an outbound invocation, indicates the invocation Target. Format for plain services: `ServiceName/HandlerName`, e.g. `Greeter/greet`. Format for Virtual Objects/Workflows: `VirtualObjectName/Key/HandlerName`, e.g. `Greeter/Francesco/greet`. |

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be inbound invocation?

Author: See comment above. Outbound invocation means a call/one way call journal entry.

| `sleep_wakeup_at` | `Date64` | If this entry represents a sleep, indicates wakeup time. |
| `raw` | `Binary` | Raw binary representation of the entry. Check the [service protocol](https://github.com/restatedev/service-protocol) for more details to decode it. |

## Table: `sys_keyed_service_status`

| Column name | Type | Description |
|-------------|------|-------------|
| `partition_key` | `UInt64` | Internal column that is used for partitioning the services invocations. Can be ignored. |

> | `service_name` | `Utf8` | The name for the invoked virtual object/workflow. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `service_name` | `Utf8` | The name of the invoked virtual object/workflow. |
```

Author: 👍

| `service_key` | `Utf8` | The key of the virtual object/workflow. |
| `invocation_id` | `Utf8` | [Invocation ID](/operate/invocation#invocation-identifier). |

## Table: `sys_inbox`

| Column name | Type | Description |
|-------------|------|-------------|
| `partition_key` | `UInt64` | Internal column that is used for partitioning the services invocations. Can be ignored. |

> | `service_name` | `Utf8` | The name for the invoked virtual object/workflow. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `service_name` | `Utf8` | The of for the invoked virtual object/workflow. |
```

Author: `The name of`. Will change it.

| `service_key` | `Utf8` | The key of the virtual object/workflow. |
| `id` | `Utf8` | [Invocation ID](/operate/invocation#invocation-identifier). |
| `sequence_number` | `UInt64` | Sequence number in the inbox. |
| `created_at` | `Date64` | Timestamp indicating the start of this invocation. |

## Table: `sys_idempotency`

| Column name | Type | Description |
|-------------|------|-------------|
| `partition_key` | `UInt64` | Internal column that is used for partitioning the services invocations. Can be ignored. |

> | `service_name` | `Utf8` | The name for the invoked service. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `service_name` | `Utf8` | The name of the invoked service. |
```

Author: 👍

> | `service_key` | `Utf8` | The key of the Virtual Object or of the Workflow. Null for regular services. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `service_key` | `Utf8` | The key of the Virtual Object or the Workflow ID. Null for regular services. |
```

Author: 👍

| `service_handler` | `Utf8` | The invoked handler. |
| `idempotency_key` | `Utf8` | The user provided idempotency key. |
| `invocation_id` | `Utf8` | [Invocation ID](/operate/invocation#invocation-identifier). |

## Table: `sys_promise`

| Column name | Type | Description |
|-------------|------|-------------|
| `partition_key` | `UInt64` | Internal column that is used for partitioning the services invocations. Can be ignored. |

> | `service_name` | `Utf8` | The name for the workflow. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `service_name` | `Utf8` | The name of the workflow service. |
```

Author: 👍

> | `service_key` | `Utf8` | The key of the virtual workflow. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `service_key` | `Utf8` | The workflow ID. |
```

Author: 👍
